geoCBMTerm (C)2017-2020 Bo Zimmerman
Please read the LICENSE file for license information
Please read the NOTICE file for credits information
Home Page: http://www.zimmers.net/geos/

geoTelnet is an ansi terminal program for connecting to Commodore BBS servers.  It is compatible with the following operating systems: GEOS 64 2.0, GEOS 128 2.0, Wheels 64 4.0+, Wheels 128 4.0+, MegaPatch 3.0 64, MegaPatch 3.0 128, gateWay 64, and gateWay 128.  It requires a 40 column composite monitor, C64Net WiFi Modem (preferred, or similar user-port modem), disk drive, and mouse or joystick. A GEOS compatible ram expansion unit (REU) is optional, but beneficial.

The C64Net WiFi Modem can be constructed from schematics by going to:
http://coffeemud.net:8080/ctcug/index.php/Inexpensive_Wireless_Internet_Modem
It can also be purchased from:
https://electronicsisfun.com/c64net-wifi

Features include:
40 column text output in C64 font.
PETSCII color and graphics terminal support
PETSCII keyboard entry support
Native support for 300-4800 baud (up to 7200 for SuperCPU enhanced systems)
desk accessory access
internal Phonebook for storing favorite telnet hosts
quick connect option
Echo (duplex) toggle
X-Modem upload and download.
64K input buffer support, with LOAD, SAVE, DUMP, and VIEW.

Building:
geoTelnet was built using Concept for Wheels 64.  It might also build using geoProgrammer, but hasn't been tested.

In addition to the given source, you'll require several components from the geoModules project:
https://github.com/bozimmerman/geoModules

You can link directly from the given object code, or built from scratch, provided the necessary geoModules include files and object files are present, and the F/CBMFont.rel and F/C=GFXFont.rel font files.

Configuring and Using:

geoCBMTerm is optimized to work with the C64Net WiFi modem from www.electronicsisfun.com.  The next best option is a user port wifi modem that uses the "Zimodem" firmware.  Information about this can be found at github.com/bozimmerman/Zimodem .  Next best is a wifi modem that supports AT commands, a DCD signal that goes high when the modem is online, and defaults to RTS/CTS flow control.  However, the program can also be used with any C= user port wifi modem for the C64 or C128 that defaults at 1200 baud.

At startup, the program will set the baud rate to 1200 and issue the following commands: "atze0v1x1f0q0r1&p1i0".  This command resets the modem, turns off modem echo, turns on verbose messages, RTS/CTS flow control, C= cariage returns, PETSCII command mode, and then sends the modem status message. Also, by default, the program starts in DCD-active mode, and local echo turned on.

To change the startup default settings, select the geoCBMTerm application in deskTop and bring up the Information page for the app.  At the bottom is the information area which, in some versions of GEOS, can be edited.  If you can edit this area, you can add one of more of the following switches to the information text area:

-D  : turn off DCD active mode.  If your modem does not support the standard Commodore "Data Carrier Detect" signal, and does not make that signal go active whenever remotely connected, you should use this switch.

-E  : turn off local echo mode by default

-B  : increment the default baud rate.  If you want the program to default at 2400 baud, use -B.  To default at 4800, use -B -B.

=<at string> : If an equal sign appears in the information text area, then every character after that will be sent to your modem at application start time, instead of the sequence listed above.  For example, if you are happy with your modems default settings, then you may end the entire info text area with =Z
